the Palestinian civilians and Israeli
hostages trapped inside Gaza overseas
family members of innocent people caught
in the conflict feel powerless in
Brussels where the European Union's
headquartered DW's Rosie burchard met
some of those hoping and praying that
their loved ones will make it
out after a moment of
silence Israel's national anthem Echoes
through quiet crowds outside the
European Parliament in Brussels
we are here with the president of the
European Council the president of the
European commission and all of you as
one to express our
solidarity inside a group of ises
bustles between meetings with
parliamentarians making the case for
more
action we meet Noam As She lays out
photos of loved ones 11 of whom are
presumed kidnapped by Hamas look at this
family okay
they are not only Israelis many of them
shushan she is a German citizen as well
we are really asking for the EU to take
responsibility and bring their citizens
back home after the horrors now the
weight is agonizing they burned all the
houses they killed everyone and they
took them and we are just trying to save
whoever is still
alive the European Union says it stands
with Israel but the block has also
warned the country against blocking
supplies to Gaza cutting water cutting
electricity cutting food to a mass of
Civilian people is against international
law so yes there are some actions that
are not in accordance with international
law that's why Leila wafi is terrified
too hailing from Gaza we meet her at her
home outside Brussels as she frantically
tries to get family members out of the
strip but there they're
trapped where can they hide they've nowh
to run to they're starting to run out of
milk bread drinking
water Lea rejects the actions of Hamas
and the Israeli response killing
civilians has never Advanced the
Palestinian cause we've always said too
that killing Palestinian civilians does
not make Israel
safer on both sides now we are Weeping
mothers we are parents searching for our
children we are both at the mercy of
extremist politics we share the same
pain but in opposing
camps for now all those watching from
afar can do is hold on whether taking
solace in a whispered prayer for
peace or a song of Hope hanging in the
[Music]
air Scott Walker is a former hostage
negotiator and author of the book order
out of Chaos thank you so much for for
joining us we are just days into this
conflict is it too soon uh to expect
negotiations about the release or
swapping of these hostages to be taking
place I think neither side wishes to be
seen to be negotiating that's that's
clear clear from the actions that we've
seen over the last few days um and with
the buildup of Israeli forces is on the
border with uh Gaza there's going to be
an incursion I think that's that's
fairly clear to see and it's imperative
that steps are taken in parallel to open
up negotiations to get those hostages
out safely although the challenge here
compared to normal hostage takings is
that this is taking place in an active
war zone right do you think that those
steps taken in parallel will will have
begun given the the the that both sides
have effectively ruled out talking at
least
publicly I think it's fair to say that
it's in everybody's interest to well
sing from the Israelis to get their
people back and then from hamas's side
to actually if it's about prisoner swaps
or whatever it is is to engage in those
kind of conversation so it's fair to say
that some kind of dialogue through
thirdparty mediators whether or not
that's the qataris the Egyptians
whomever has probably more than likely
started yes Hamas says a number of
hostages have already been killed in
Israeli missile attacks they've also
threatened to kill hostages every time
Israel strikes so do you think we they
the Israelis and Hamas do we all have to
accept that there will be hostage deaths
either during or because of Israeli
military
efforts I I think what in every single
kidnapping and hostage taking case I've
been involved in there have been threats
made and on rare occasions some kind of
violence and force is being used against
the hostages and I think with a sheer
number we're talking potentially 150
hostages and I said with the fact that
this is taking place in a war zone that
there is sadly inevitably going to be
some further tragedy there uh which is
why I guess it's more incumbent to bring
about some kind of negotiation to get
the people out sooner rather than
later and piled on top of that is the
fact that it is likely that these
hostages are being kept in one of the
most densely populated uh parts of the
planet uh and of course Hamas has this
network of tunnels to escape
into it does and I think right now
there' be lots of effort put into
coordinating identifying locating where
the hostages are being kept as much as
possible and of course in the background
there's talk of potentially hostage
rescue attempts but these are very very
uh dangerous options with not always a
guaranteed chance of success so trying
to locate where those hostages are and
to work out who to speak to to bring
about their release is a big challenge
another complicating Factor must be that
Israel will not I'm presuming
countenance paying a ransom to get their
people back they could not countenance
funding Hamas in any
way yeah I think that's that's fair to
say the the question of why did Hamas
take the hostages in the first place
again is
a is an interesting point you know yes
they're been held as human Shields at
the moment that's that's clear to see
and inevitably they'll want to play some
leverage uh further down the line around
potentially some prisoner exchanges and
we've seen Israel has been consistent
relatively consistent in the past of
prioritizing the safe return of their
citizens even if it does take a while to
do so
right you've been in the room I presume
we're going to spec I'm going to ask you
to speculate now how does it work who
talks to
who how about
what yes what happens is normally you
get alongside you get in the room with
the family or the company and obviously
straight away it's about reassuring the
family that we'll do everything we can
to get them back
but there is no guarantees there's no
promises that can be made here however
all steps will be taken and then it's
preparing the family for the call that
may come in the call from the hostage
takers or even their loved one via the
hostage takers it's understanding what
is it that we need to say what are our
objectives which will be we'll need to
reassure the hostage takers yes we hear
them we're taking this seriously it's
about obtaining what's called a proof of
Life ideally we speak to the hostage to
make sure that they're alive and well
and then it's agreeing some next steps
maybe the next time to speak over the
phone and exactly what it is that the
hostage takers are demanding thank you
so much for talking us through that
Scott Walker former hostage negotiator
and the author of order out of chaos
thank you so
much the US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin is in qar a day after visiting
Israel as part of a series of talks he
is holding across the Middle East he's
just held a press conference and here's
some of what he
said United States and cutter share the
goal of preventing this conflict from
spreading uh we discussed in detail our
efforts to prevent any actor state or
non-state from creating a new front uh
in this
conflict we're also working intensively
together to secure the release of
hostages including American citizens
being held by Hamas and Gaza I'm
grateful for the urgency that cutter is
bringing to this effort I'm going join
now by Richard Walker DW's Chief
International editor who you've listened
into uh this press conference a lot of
focus on the hostages and fear of
escalation yeah that's right so so the
qataris obviously they play pretty
important diplomatic role role within
the Middle East that they've they've
they've often uh coordinated
diplomatically with the Americans on
other issues such as um negotiating with
the Taliban um in Afghanistan um now
they're playing a central role in
efforts to to try and find a negotiated
um kind of swap for the for the um
hostages who have been taken by by Hamas
into Gaza so that's on the one side that
the Qatari prime minister there not
raising too many expect a that anything
is going to happen immediately I mean he
was stressing that this is still
relatively early in this into this
hostage situation but that he hoped to
be able to report some kind of progress
in the next few days um and in terms of
the fear of escalation of course there
it's about hisbah in the north so so the
the radical uh uh group based in
southern Lebanon the fear that it could
Mount more in tacts into into Northern
Israel to create a twoof front situation
for Israel and also potentially the the
role that Iran would play so these two
of the really big preoccupations of
course not just for the Americans but
but for many countries in the region he
also did address the humanitarian
situation uh in Gaza I believe what did
he have to say about that yeah so so the
Americans and we heard this from blinkin
very much in this press conference
they're trying to kind of walk a line
here where on the one hand they are
saying and blinkin said you know Israel
has every right to defend itself against
the attacks that Hamas mounted and in
fact a duty to defend itself and that
there can be no business as usual now in
in in dealing with with with this threat
from Hamas which which reached such an
extraordinary level with these attacks
um but at the same time saying that the
he said in his words the way Israel does
this the way it it mounts these
operations it matters um and there's
been a lot of criticism from around the
region about Israel's warning to the
people of uh Gaza of Northern Gaza that
they need to evacuate to the south of
the
region um and he was pressed about you
know whether the US kind of gave a green
light just go ahead and do that he
evaded that question but he did say that
so implicitly he is trying to call on
the Israelis and say that he urged the
Israelis to really respect the right of
civilians uh in the Gaza Strip and added
that the United States is focusing on
trying to create safe zones within Gaza
presumably in southern Gaza where people
can take refuge um but I think there's
going to be a lot of focus of course in
the days ahead if Isel does go ahead
with this ground
offensive how are civilians treated how
many civilians start getting killed and
this is the line that the Americans are
trying to walk on the one hand say is
Israel has every right to conduct
operations on the other hand to say it
must respect the right of civilians as
well was it this the last station of
this trip or is he going someplace El no
this is this is a multi-stop tour for
for Tony blinkin and I think it was also
interesting he spoke earlier to the King
of Jordan King Abdullah who is also
anticipating ated here in Berlin next
week and uh King Abdullah was very clear
particularly on this question of
displacing um uh gazans from northern
Gaza saying that um he warned against
any attempt to forcibly displace any
civilians from northern Gaza so that
message from um countries in the region
that are supportive of the Palestinians
obviously getting across to the
Americans very much on this trip our
chief International editor Richard
Walker there thank you very much
Richard